# cs480-assignment-2

Kobe Pane: I added the ghost indicator arrow gameplay element. The red arrow points in the direction of the nearest enemy ghost relative to the players view. The arrow also fades to become more or less visible to the player depending on the distance from the nearest ghost. If the nearest ghost is close by, the arrow becomes a brighter red. If the nearest ghost is far away, the arrow is more transparent. 

Dot Product: The dot product was used to determine the direction of the nearest ghost, relative to the player's view. This was part of the implementation of the ghost indicator arrow. I first took the normalized direction vector from the player to the ghost and computed the dot product with the main cameras forward and right vectors. Then, knowing these two dot products, an angle was computed to represent the direction of the ghost from the player. The arrow then rotates to point at the ghost, based off that computed angle.

Linear Interpolation: Linear interpolation was used to map the distance from the nearest ghost to the player, to an opacity for the ghost indicator arrow. This was done by normalizing the distance and applying the Mathf.Lerp method. When the nearest ghost is far away from the player, the arrow is transparent, and as it gets closer the arrow becomes more opaque.

Cole Herman: I added the heartbeat volume fade using linear interpolation. I thought it would be more spooky and suspenseful if it slowly got louder the closer you got to a ghost, so I reused Kobe's nearest ghost distance calculation by making it a public variable, then used inverse lerp to map that distance to a target volume. Then I modified Will's heartbeat effect to smoothly lerp the volume towards the target each frame, with some playtesting to get good distance and smooth speed variables.

Lucy Acheson: I added the particles. I played the game to determine where particles would be most used by the player. I decided the ghosts should emit particles so it gives the player more of a "warning", and a width to know to avoid the ghosts. I played with every single particle setting and eventually settled on the following: making them have the ghost material, emission, shape, size over lifetime, trails, and renderings. I applied this to each ghost. I also added a particle system to the final light, so the player knows as they are heading towards it that they are headed to the finish, as I wasn't aware that I was headed to the finish during my first playthrough. I made that one the light material and changed lots of the settings for it as well.

William Jurewitz: I added the sound on trigger. I decided that I wanted to add a heartbeat effect when the player was close to a ghost to add some stressful ambience. I downloaded a heartbeat loop online, edited the player and ghost perfabs, and added a physics layer. The detection happens through a child object of the John Lemon prefab I added called 'zone' which interacts with a sound object on the John Lemon parent object. The 'zone' object is on physics layer 10, named ghostDetection. The 'zone' object has a sphere trigger collider which detects when ghosts heve entered sing a tag I created for them called... ghost. When a ghost enters the sphere it starts to play the heartbeat sound, and there is some coutning logic to prevent more than one ghost from causing issues. When there is no longer any ghost in the sphere the sound stops. Originally this collider method caused some issues with player detection, which is why I added the ghostDetection physics layer. This allowed me to change the collision settings on the 'point of view' object that the ghost uses to detect the player so that it wouldn't detect my trigger collider.
